/// DECLARE path=/help/monitors/linux-process-metrics;/appDashboard
/// DECLARE title=Linux Process Metrics
/// DECLARE section=help
/// DECLARE subsection=monitors

# Linux Process Metrics

This agent monitor plugin records CPU consumption, memory usage, and other metrics for a specified process.
You can use this plugin to record resource usage for a web server, database, or other application.

@class=bg-warning docInfoPanel: An *agent monitor plugin* is a component of the Scalyr Agent. To use a plugin,
simply add it to the ``monitors`` section of the Scalyr Agent configuration file (``/etc/scalyr/agent.json``).
For more information, see [Agent Plugins](/help/scalyr-agent#plugins).


## Sample Configuration

Here is a simple configuration fragment showing use of the linux_process_metrics plugin. This sample will record
resource usage for any process whose command line contains a match for the regular expression ``java.*tomcat6``:

    monitors: [
      {
         module:      "scalyr_agent.builtin_monitors.linux_process_metrics",
         id:          "tomcat",
         commandline: "java.*tomcat6",
      }
    ]

To record information for more than one process, use several copies of the linux_process_metrics plugin in
your configuration.


## Viewing Data

After adding this plugin to the agent configuration file, wait one minute for data to begin recording. Then 
click the {{menuRef:Dashboards}} menu and select {{menuRef:Linux Process Metrics}}. (The dashboard will not be
listed until the agent begins sending data.)

You'll have to edit the dashboard file for each ``id`` value you've used. From the dashboard page, click the
{{menuRef:Edit Dashboard}} link. Look for the following bit of code, near the top of the file:

      // On the next line, list each "id" that you've used in a linux_process_metrics
      // clause in the Scalyr Agent configuration file (agent.json).
      values: [ "agent" ]

Edit the ``values`` list according to the list of ids you've used. For instance, if you've used "tomcat"
(as in the example above), the list would look like this:

      values: [ "agent", "tomcat" ]

The "agent" ID is used to report metrics for the Scalyr Agent itself.

You can now return to the dashboard. Use the dropdowns near the top of the page to select the host and process
you'd like to view.


## Configuration Reference

|||# Option                   ||| Usage
|||# ``module``               ||| Always ``scalyr_agent.builtin_monitors.linux_process_metrics``
|||# ``id``                   ||| Included in each log message generated by this monitor, as a field named ``instance``. \
                                  Allows you to distinguish between values recorded by different monitors.
|||# ``commandline``          ||| A regular expression which will match the command line of the process you're \
                                  interested in, as shown in the output of ``ps aux``. (If multiple processes match the \
                                  same command line pattern, only one will be monitored.)


## Log Reference

Each event recorded by this plugin will have the following fields:

|||# Field                    ||| Meaning
|||# ``monitor``              ||| Always ``linux_process_metrics``
|||# ``instance``             ||| The ``id`` value from the monitor configuration, e.g. ``tomcat``
|||# ``metric``               ||| The name of a metric being measured, e.g. "app.cpu"
|||# ``value``                ||| The metric value

Some metrics have additional fields, as documented below.
